# What is RALPH

Spec-driven development with AI follows a familiar rhythm: you spend time upfront writing a brief, a PRD, and a plan — then Claude takes over. At that point, your job becomes clicking "Accept" over and over while Claude does the actual work. You can't walk away (you don't want to enable "accept all" and risk Claude doing something destructive), so you just sit there babysitting a process that doesn't really need you.

RALPH is the solution to that problem.

The **RALPH loop** is an autonomous execution pattern where you hand Claude a phased plan and it works through each phase end-to-end — no hand-holding required. Instead of approving every micro-decision in real time, you review the output once the work is done.

# HITL vs AFK Ralph

## HITL (human in the loop)

EXPLAIN

## AFK (away from keyboard)

EXPLAIN

# Sandboxing

AI models are sometime unpredictable. So, to run the model AFK, you must run it in a sandbox. This is important so that Claude do not delete your entire home directory. 

To run docker sandbox, you'll need Docker Desktop. After, you can just run:

```bash
docker sandbox run claude .
```

Now with Docker Sandbox, to run RALPH AFK, we just have to do:
```bash
# ./ralph/afk.sh "./TO-PLAN-FILE" "./TO-PRD-FILE" ITERATIONS-COUNT
./ralph/afk.sh "./TO-PLAN-FILE" "./TO-PRD-FILE" 10
```

# RALPH on steroid

In this previous example where you pass the plan and the prd, the human is still involved in the process. But, the agent is intelligent enough to prioritize tasks by himself. So, we can give it access to the entire backlog and it could prioritize based on previous commits and current memory. 

That way, the human can add things to the backlog that the agent can see and generate the code for it. 

The backlog can live in the task management service, like Github or Linear. 